Review {cfr} v0.1.0 for CRAN release (#78)
epiverse-trace/cfr: vignettes/estimate_time_varying_severity.Rmd

The data for all of the examples is from the ongoing COVID-19 epidemic.
Firstly, we analyse the U.K. data, then we pick three other countries with large outbreaks to analyse. 

### Preparing the raw data

First we subset the data so that we focus on just the first year of the COVID-19 outbreak in the U.K.
During this period, the CFR changed dramatically as a result of a number of changes in policy, such as implementation and relaxation of lockdown; rollout of the vaccine; new variants emerging, etc.

We load Covid-19 daily case and death data for 19 countries with ≥ 100,000 deaths between 2020 and 2023 --- this data is provided with the _cfr_ package as `covid_data`, and was initially made available from the [_covidregionaldata_ package](https://github.com/epiforecasts/covidregionaldata) [@palmer2021].

```{r}
# get Covid data loaded with the package
data("covid_data")

# filter for the U.K
df_covid_uk <- filter(covid_data, country == "United Kingdom")
```

We then subset the data to focus on just the first few months of the outbreak.

```{r}
df_covid_uk_subset <- filter(df_covid_uk, date <= "2020-12-31")
```

Then, we plot case incidence data with following command.

> Further plotting commands are hidden for brevity.

Author: I think we should show the first instance. Further instances are folded.

ggplot(df_covid_uk_subset) +
  geom_step(
    aes(
      x = date, y = cases
    ),
    colour = "steelblue"
  ) +
  scale_x_date(
    date_labels = "%b-%Y"
  ) +
  scale_y_continuous(
    labels = comma
  ) +
  labs(
    x = "Date", y = "Cases"
  ) +
  coord_cartesian(
      expand = FALSE
  ) +
  theme_classic() +
  theme(legend.position = "top")
```

We also plot the death incidence data over time.

```{r, fig.cap = "Incidence of deaths over time for the ongoing COVID-19 outbreak in the U.K.", class.source = 'fold-hide'}
ggplot(df_covid_uk_subset) +
  geom_step(
    aes(
      x = date, y = deaths
    ),
    colour = "brown"
  ) +
  scale_x_date(
    date_labels = "%b-%Y"
  ) +
  scale_y_continuous(
    labels = comma
  ) +
  labs(
    x = "Date", y = "Deaths"
  ) +
  coord_cartesian(
      expand = FALSE
  ) +
  theme_classic() +
  theme(legend.position = "top")
```

### Onset-to-death distribution for Covid-19

We retrieve the appropriate distribution reported in @linton2020 using the `epidist_db()` function from the _epiparameter_ package.

```{r message=FALSE, warning=FALSE, eval=TRUE}

> onset_to_death_covid <- epidist_db(

Reviewer: I get same issue as in `estimate_ascertainment.Rmd` with epidist being a list. I think I'm using latest version of epiparameter, but may be missed a refactoring somewhere?

Author: Yep, same as above.

  ggplot() +
  geom_ribbon(
    aes(
      x = date, ymin = severity_lo, ymax = severity_hi,
      group = country
    ),
    fill = "grey"
  ) +
  geom_line(
    aes(
      x = date, y = severity_me, colour = country
    )
  ) +
  scale_x_date(
    date_labels = "%b-%Y"
  ) +
  scale_y_continuous(
    labels = percent
  ) +
  scale_colour_brewer(
    palette = "Dark2"
  ) +
  labs(
    x = "Date", y = "CFR (%)"
  ) +
  coord_cartesian(
    ylim = c(0, 0.15),
    expand = FALSE
  ) +
  theme_classic() +
  theme(legend.position = "top")
```

---

## Details: Adjusting for delays between two time series 

The function `estimate_time_varying()` from the _cfr_ package estimates the number of cases which have a known outcome over time, following @nishiura2009.
The function calculates a quantity $k_t$ for each day within the input data, which represents the number of cases with a known outcome, on day $t$.
Following @nishiura2009, $k_t$ is calculated in the following way:

\begin{equation}
  k_t = \sum_{j = 0}^t c_t f_{j - t}.
\end{equation}

We then assume that the severity measure, for example CFR, of interest is

> Binomially-distributed, in the following way 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
binomially distributed, in the following way 
```

\begin{equation}
  d_t \sim \text{Binomial}(k_t, \theta_t). 
\end{equation}

> We use maximum-likelihood techniques to determine the value of $\theta_t$ for 
> each $t$, whereby $\theta$ represents the severity measure of interest.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use maximum likelihood estimation to determine the value of $\theta_t$ for 
each $t$, where $\theta$ represents the severity measure of interest.
```
